Update dask docs (#1532)
huggingface/hub-docs: docs/hub/datasets-dask.md

# Dask

[Dask](https://github.com/dask/dask) is a parallel and distributed computing library that scales the existing Python and PyData ecosystem.

In particular, we can use Dask DataFrame to scale up pandas workflows. Dask DataFrame parallelizes pandas to handle large tabular data. It closely mirrors the pandas API, making it simple to transition from testing on a single dataset to processing the full dataset. Dask is particularly effective with Parquet, the default format on Hugging Face Datasets, as it supports rich data types, efficient columnar filtering, and compression.

> A good practical use-case for Dask is to run data processing or model inference on a dataset in a distributed manner. See for example the excellent blog post on [Scaling AI-Based Data Processing with Hugging Face + Dask](https://huggingface.co/blog/dask-scaling) by Coiled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A good practical use case for Dask is running data processing or model inference on a dataset in a distributed manner. See, for example, Coiled's excellent blog post on [Scaling AI-Based Data Processing with Hugging Face + Dask](https://huggingface.co/blog/dask-scaling).
```

```

For more information on the Hugging Face paths and how they are implemented, please refer to the [the client library's documentation on the HfFileSystem](/docs/huggingface_hub/guides/hf_file_system).

# Process data

To process a dataset in parallel using Dask, you can first define your data processing function for a pandas DataFrame or Series, and then use the Dask `map_partitions` function to apply this function to all the partitions of a dataset in parallel:

```python
def dummy_count_words(texts):
    return pd.Series([len(text.split(" ")) for text in texts])
```

In pandas you can use this function on a text column:

```python
# pandas API
df["num_words"] = dummy_count_words(df.text)
```

And in Dask you can run this function on every partition:

```python
# Dask API: run the function on every partition
df["num_words"] = df.text.map_partitions(dummy_count_words, meta=int)
```

Note that you also need to provide `meta` which is the type of the pandas Series or DataFrame in the output of your function.

> This is needed because Dask DataFrame is a lazy API. Since Dask will only run the data processing once `.compute()` is called, it needs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is needed because Dask DataFrame uses a lazy API. Since Dask will only run the data processing once `.compute()` is called, it needs
```

the `meta` argument to know the type of the new column in the meantime.

# Predicate and Projection Pushdown

When reading Parquet data from Hugging Face, Dask automatically leverages the metadata in Parquet files to skip entire files or row groups if they are not needed. For example if you apply a filter (predicate) on a Hugging Face Dataset in Parquet format or if you select a subset of the columns (projection), Dask will read the metadata of the Paquet files to discard the parts that are not needed without downloading them.

> This is possible thanks to the `dask-expr` package which is generally installed by default with Dask.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is possible thanks to the `dask-expr` package, which is generally installed by default with Dask. You can read more about `dask-expr` in this [blog post](https://blog.dask.org/2023/08/25/dask-expr-introduction). 
```

For example this subset of FineWeb-Edu contains many Parquet files. If you can filter the dataset to keep the text from recent CC dumps, Dask will skip most of the files and only download the data that match the filter:

```python
import dask.dataframe as dd

df = dd.read_parquet("hf://datasets/HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu/sample/10BT/*.parquet")

# Dask will skip the files or row groups that don't

> # match rhe query without downloading them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# match the query without downloading them.
```

> df = df[df.dump >= "CC-MAIN-2023"]

Reviewer: Does Dask not still need to download the data to check the values in this column match this filter? From what I understood in the Polars case the predicate push down is usually used for skipping the reading of a column i.e. if you drop it later it doesn't bother to load it and/or doing a filtering step early on. Is Dask directly able to do this before loading?

Author: so it will skip the row groups which don't have any row that match the query using the row group metadata

then on the remaining row groups it will download the column used for filtering to apply the filter

the other columns will be downloaded or not based on the other operations done on the dataset

Author: > if you drop it later it doesn't bother to load it and/or doing a filtering step early on. Is Dask directly able to do this before loading?

yes correct ! would be cool to explain that here as well
